Plan for Breakout Game
Mike Liu
Jan 14 2017

1. Variant:
	I think the Pinball Breakout variant is very interesting. The original Breakout game only has one
	pattern so players may get tired after a few levels. The pinball elements help introduce a lot of
	variations to the maps and game pattern, so the players can see something new at every new level.
	Also, I think it is creative to give the ball health points and let the players control multiple
	paddles and arms simultaneously. This require the players to put more thoughts into their game-
	playing strategy reasonably leveraging the level of difficulty.

2. Levels:
	Player will begin with three lives and get one new life each higher level they get to.
	Level I: Only normal blocks and power-up blocks
	Level II: Several barrier blocks will float below the normal and power-up blocks
	Level III: Barrier blocks live together with other blocks, so they are harder to eliminate
	Level IV: A huge moving barrier block that can only be cleared by being hit from above for ten times.
			  Each time it is hit from above it will drop a power-up. Cannon bullet can go throw it but
			  can only hurt if when hitting from above. Drops a bomb every 3s, paddle length will be
			  halved for 5s if hit by a bomb. Paddle can only be shorten once, but consecutive hit will
			  reset the time it is shortened. Gives a lot of points when cleared. This level does not have
			  the hole to the next level (no next level anyway), clearing the block will also clear the
			  level.

3. Blocks
	1) Normal block that is cleared by one hit and give one point.
	2) Power-up block that takes three hits to be cleared and drops power-up instead of giving points.
	3) Barrier block that can only be cleared by a hit from above. Gives ten points when cleared.

4. Power-ups
	1) Cannon: The ball will become a cannon ball the first time it hits the paddle after the paddle is
	   charged with this power-up and return to normal ball when it hits the paddle for a second time.
	   Cannon ball will not be be bounced back by blocks and will clear all blocks on its path.
	2) Spawn another ball on the paddle, which will be launched when space key is pressed
	3) Lengthen the paddle by a factor of 2 for 5s.
	4) Double points earned for 5s.
	
5. Cheat keys:
	1) Press number keys to go to corresponding levels
	2) Press "L" to lengthen the paddle by a factor of 2
	3) Press "C" to clear all blocks and get the corresponding points
	4) Press "A" to add a life

6. Extra:
	There will be a hole at the top of the screen. If the ball goes into the hole, the player will go to
	the next level regardless of the number of blocks left in the current level. But if the player go to
	the next before clearing all the blocks in the current level, he/she will be penalized by twice of
	the total score of the blocks left.
	This will be an interesting addition because it will change the way people play the game: many people
	pass the game with only luck, but now in order to get a high score in the game, players
	need to be use skills and tactics to control whether the ball should go into the hole.